first draft of gardener on metal vs openshift comparison (#66)
metal-stack/docs: docs/src/overview/comparison.md

> # Comparison with commercial Solutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Comparison With Commercial Solutions
```

> As metal-stack is the foundation to build kubernetes clusters on premise on bare metal, there are several commercial solutions available which offer management of kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As metal-stack is the foundation to build Kubernetes clusters on premise on bare metal, there are several commercial solutions available which offer management of Kubernetes.
```

> In this document we describe the difference of some of the most popular solutions. It´s is not a complete list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document we describe the differences between some of the most popular solutions. It's is not a complete list.
```

```@contents
Pages = ["comparison.md"]
Depth = 5
```

> In this document we want to compare a often cited battle between Kubernetes managed by Gardener on Metal Stack and Openshift running on VMWare.

Reviewer: This sentence at least feels redundant because it starts with the same beginning "In this document we" as last sentence.

## Gardener

> [Gardener](https://gardener.cloud) is a Kubernetes Cluster manager to organize a fleet of Kubernetes Clusters at Scale. It is designed to scale to thousands of clusters at a variety of IaaS Providers regardles where, in the Cloud or On Premise, virtualized or bare metal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gardener](https://gardener.cloud) is a Kubernetes cluster manager to organize a fleet of Kubernetes clusters at scale. It is designed to scale to thousands of clusters at a variety of IaaS Providers regardless where – in the cloud or on premise, virtualized or bare metal.
```

> It manages not only the creation and deletion of a Kubernetes Cluster, it also takes care of updates and upgrades of kubernetes and the Operating System of the involved Worker Nodes in a automatic Manner. Its designed Cloud Native as it defines Clustes, Workers and all other Components like Pods and Deployments as Kubernetes Resources which are reconciled to the desired state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It not only manages the creation and deletion of Kubernetes clusters, it also takes care of updating or upgrading Kubernetes and the operating system of the involved worker nodes in a automatic manner. Gardener is designed cloud-native and as such, it defines clusters, workers and all other components as Kubernetes resources (like pods and deployments) and reconciles these resources to the desired state.
```

## Kubernetes

> [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) is the de facto Open Source standard for Container Scheduling and Orchestration in the Datacenter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) is the de facto open-source standard for container scheduling and orchestration in the data center.
```

## Openshift

> A Fork of Kubernetes with proprietary addons, created by RedHat. For all Details see: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenShift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenShift).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fork of Kubernetes with proprietary addons, created by RedHat. For all details see: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenShift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenShift).
```

> ## Metal Stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## metal-stack
```

> Is a [IaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_a_service) provider for bare metal focused to create Kubernetes Cluster On Premise. Gardener support is built in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Is an [IaaS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infrastructure_as_a_service) provider for bare metal focused to create Kubernetes cluster on premise. Gardener support is built in.
```

## VMWare

> The most used virtualization technology in the Enterprise Datacenters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most used virtualization technology in the enterprise data centers.
```

| Feature                                  | Gardener on Metal Stack                                                           | Openshift on VMWare                                         |

> |------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer: Column centering:

```suggestion
|:----------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------:|
```

| Container Runtime                        | docker, containerd, gvisor                                                        | cri-o                                                       |

> | Host Operating System                    | Ubuntu, Debian                                                                    | RHEL, Fedora-Core                                           |

Reviewer: We also support custom images, should link to https://docs.metal-stack.io/previews/PR66/overview/os/

| Network Plugins                          | Calico, Cilium                                                                    | Openshift SDN                                               |

> | Storage                                  | Local NVME, Lightbits NVMEoTCP, all CSI compatible Solutions                      | CSI compatible                                              |

Reviewer: Should link to https://docs.metal-stack.io/previews/PR66/overview/storage/

> | Loadbalancing                            | BGP built in                                                                      | requires extra HW like F5                                   |

Reviewer: And through MetalLB?

| IO at Native Speed                       | Pods run on bare metal                                                            | all IO must go through the Hypervisor                       |

> | Hard Multitenancy                        | Workers, Firewall and Loadbalancers are dedicated for every cluster on bare metal | Shared virtualization hosts, shared Loadbalancers           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Hard Multitenancy                        | Workers, firewall and load balancers are dedicated for every cluster on bare metal | Shared virtualization hosts, shared load balancers           |
```

| UI                                       | Gardener Dashboard                                                                | Openshift Console                                           |

> | Manages Kubernetes Installation at scale | Yes                                                                               | Requires extra licences SW: Redhat Advanced Cluster Manager |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Mutli-cluster management | Yes (through Gardener)                                                                               | Requires extra licences SW: Redhat Advanced Cluster Manager |
```

| Automatic Kubernetes Updates             | Yes                                                                               | Yes                                                         |
| Automatic Worker Nodes Updates           | Yes                                                                               | Yes                                                         |

> | Supported IaaS Providers                 | GCP, AWS, Azure, Alibaba, Openstack, VMWare, Metal Stack and more                 | GCP, AWS, Azure Openstack, VMWare                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Supported IaaS Providers                 | GCP, AWS, Azure, Alibaba, Openstack, VMWare, metal-stack and more                 | GCP, AWS, Azure Openstack, VMWare                           |
```

| Monitoring / Logging Stack               | Grafana/Loki, Kibana/Elastic                                                      | Kibana/Elastic                                              |
| GitOPS                                   | Tool of choice via Helm Install                                                   | Openshift GitOPS                                            |
| Container Registry                       | all public accessible registries, private deployed registry of choice             | all public accessible registries, in cluster registry       |
| CI/CD                                    | Tool of choice via Helm Install                                                   | Jenkins                                                     |
| Security                                 | PSP enabled by default                                                            | Strong cluster defaults                                     |

> | CNCF Kubernetes certified                | Yes                                                                               | Yes                                                         |

Reviewer: Gardener yes, metal-stack no. :(

| Local development                        | minikube, kind                                                                    | minishift                                                   |
| Proprietary extensions                   | No                                                                                | DeploymentConfig and others                                 |
| kubectl access                           | Yes                                                                               | Yes                                                         |

> | helm support | Yes                           | Yes                                                             |

Reviewer: Helm 2?
